# danectl - DNSSEC DANE implementation manager
# https://raf.org/danectl
# https://github.com/raforg/danectl
# https://codeberg.org/raforg/danectl
#
# Copyright (C) 2021-2023 raf <raf@raf.org>
#
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
# (at your option) any later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program; if not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
#
# 20230718 raf <raf@raf.org>

=head1 NAME

I<danectl-zonefile> - Adapt I<danectl> DNS RR output to modify BIND9 zonefiles

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  danectl rollover <cert-name> | danectl-zonefile <zonefile>
  danectl tlsa-check <cert-name> | danectl-zonefile <zonefile>
  danectl sshfp-check <hostname> | danectl-zonefile <zonefile>
  danectl -1 smimea-check <cert.pem> | danectl-zonefile <zonefile>
  danectl -1 openpgpkey-check <email> | danectl-zonefile <zonefile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<danectl-zonefile> is an output adapter for I<danectl(1)>. Certain
I<danectl(1)> commands (see the examples above) produce output that
indicates DNS RRs that need to be removed or added to the DNS.

This adapter is a filter that accepts that output from I<danectl(1)>, then
backs up and modifies the BIND9 zonefile whose name is supplied on the
command line.

There are many ways to implement changes to the DNS. I<danectl> currently
provides two adapters for this purpose. Contributions of more adapters would
be welcomed.

=head1 LIMITATIONS

This assumes that any DNS RRs to be deleted from the zonefile were added to
the zonefile from I<danectl(1)> output. If the RRs are not formatted exactly
the same as in I<danectl(1)> output, it will not be detected and it will not
be deleted. But the new RRs to be added will still be added to the zonefile.
If this happens, the old undeleted DNS RRs will have to be manually deleted.

The serial number in the SOA is not modified. That will need to be done
separately.

=head1 SEE ALSO

I<danectl(1)>, I<named(8)>, I<danectl-nsupdate(1)>.

=head1 AUTHOR

raf E<lt>raf@raf.orgE<gt>

=cut

