# danectl - DNSSEC DANE implementation manager
# https://raf.org/danectl
# https://github.com/raforg/danectl
# https://codeberg.org/raforg/danectl
#
# Copyright (C) 2021-2023 raf <raf@raf.org>
#
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
# (at your option) any later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program; if not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
#
# 20230313 raf <raf@raf.org>

=head1 NAME

I<danectl-nsupdate> - Adapt I<danectl> DNS RR output for BIND9 I<nsupdate>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  danectl rollover <cert-name> | danectl-nsupdate <ttl> | nsupdate
  danectl tlsa-check <cert-name> | danectl-nsupdate <ttl> | nsupdate
  danectl sshfp-check <hostname> | danectl-nsupdate <ttl> | nsupdate
  danectl -1 smimea-check <cert.pem> | danectl-nsupdate <ttl> | nsupdate
  danectl -1 openpgpkey-check <email> | danectl-nsupdate <ttl> | nsupdate

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<danectl-nsupdate> is an output adapter for I<danectl(1)>. Certain
I<danectl(1)> commands (see the examples above) produce output that
indicates DNS RRs that need to be removed or added to the DNS.

This adapter is a filter that accepts that output from I<danectl(1)>, and
produces the corresponding input for I<nsupdate(1)> to implement the
indicated changes via dynamic DNS updates.

There are many ways to implement changes to the DNS. I<danectl> currently
provides two adapters for this purpose. Contributions of more adapters would
be welcomed.

=head1 LIMITATIONS

The multi-line I<danectl(1)> output for I<SMIMEA> and I<OPENPGPKEY> DNS RRs
is not supported. The single-line output must be used (see the examples
above).

=head1 SEE ALSO

I<danectl(1)>, I<nsupdate(1)>, I<danectl-zonefile(1)>.

=head1 AUTHOR

raf E<lt>raf@raf.orgE<gt>

=cut

